After completing the assignment, please answer the questions in this text file and submit it to I-Learn.

1. Project Title / One sentence description:
RideKeeper is an app for tracking cycling rides and trails.

2. The Heroku URL for your web application:
http://dresent.herokuapp.com/ride/

3. The GitHub URL for your source code repository:
https://github.com/Dresen-Tammy/cs-313

4. Please provide a brief description of what your project does and how to use the application. Make sure to include any required information like a username and password.
RideKeeper allows a person to create a new account, then login and add cycling rides and trails.  User can view rides by date, by trail, and by ride name. User can also update
and delete rides, and update their password. To update the password, click on the settings wheel in the top left corner.

To get into the app, you can either create a new account and then login, or login using username 'tammy' and password 'password1'.
The tammy account has several trails and rides so you can see multiple rides displayed without having to add them yourself.

5. Briefly describe any pieces of the assignment that are not yet working correctly.
I left out the ability update the date on the ride because I can't figure out how to extract the hours and minutes
as numbers from the datetime in order to prepopulate the input fields.

6. Provide evidence of your database design by dumping the SQL that describes your Heroku database to the file "output.sql" using the following command. Submit this SQL file in addition to the submission file for this assignment.

  $ heroku run 'pg_dump $DATABASE_URL' > output.sql

--------------------------------
Project Self-assessment
--------------------------------

For each of the following requirements, please replace the "(YES/NO)" with either "YES" or "NO" as to whether or not your work met this requirement.

Requirements
------------
(YES) 1. Your web application is running in Heroku.
(YES) 2. Your latest source code is in GitHub.
(YES) 3. Your web application uses data stored in the session.
(YES) 4. Your web application uses a PostgreSQL database in Heroku.
(YES) 5. Your database schema includes foreign key references.
(YES) 6. Your web application includes an SQL SELECT query that joins multiple tables.
(YES) 7. Your web application includes an SQL UPDATE statement.

For each of the following criteria, please replace the "(A-E)" with either the "A", "B", "C", "D", or "E" category you feel best describes your work. Include a 1-2 sentence justification.

Categories
----------
A - Some attempt was made.
B - Developing, but significantly deficient.
C - Slightly deficient, but still mostly adequate.
D - Meets requirements.
E - Shows creativity and excels above and beyond requirements.

Criteria
----------
(D) 1. Professional look and feel.
The page is responsive, and looks good on mobile, tablet, and desktop.  It has transitions on the popup menus, and a consistent look and feel throughout.
I could have spent more time working on making it look more modern and exciting.

(E) 2. Accomplishes a meaningful/interesting task.
The app allows users to track their cycling workouts for accountablility and see their cumulative efforts over a period of time. It also allows the user to see
all of their rides on the same trail to track their improvement.

(E) 3. Demonstrates skill with HTML, CSS, and JavaScript.
The webpage uses semantic tags in HTML. It is responsive and has transitions, pseudo-elements, and media queries in CSS. It utilizes JavaScript to capture click, change, and keyup events,
and changes the DOM using AJAX.

(E) 4. Demonstrates skill with PHP.
The webpages are powered by a single index.php page that communicates with the database and delivers the correct view to the user with the applicable information.
Secure data is handled through post requests, and all data entered by the user is filtered and sanitized to protect against attacks.

(E) 5. Demonstrates good database design principles.
Each table has a primary key that is a surrogate key, so it will not change.  Each type of information is in a separate table, and the tables are linked
with foreign keys.

(E) 6. Demonstrates skill in database retrieval.
Prepared statements are used to interact with the database in order to protect from attacks, and the data is sanitized before it is inserted into the database.
Queries are used to select needed information in the database. Inner joins and subqueries are used to retrieve the
correct information.

(A-E) 7. Demonstrates skill in database modification.
I have used queries that add, delete, and update information in the database. Inner joins and subqueries are used
to select the correct information to modify.

(E) 8. Demonstrates mastery of client-side/server-side coordination and communication.
The structure of the database is based on an MVC architecture.  The index.php page controls the coordination of the
different part of the web page. The functions.php page serves as the model and interacts with the database. The information
is returned to the control and then delivered to the browser with the appropriate view. Both client and server side
validation is used on all information supplied by the user.

(E) 9. Overall project evaluation.
I think the project is fun, professional. It shows skill in using HTML, CSS, PHP, JavaScript, and SQL. It allows the user to save, compile, update and display cycling data in many different ways.